let me ask you something would you dip
into your retirement account if you
needed to to pay the bills well you
wouldn't be alone because right now
today there are so many people doing
that you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you in today's video
we're going to talk about how many
people are struggling it's not just the
bottom 20% or even 50% of people we're
talking about the bottom 80% the vast
majority of people are struggling to
make ends meet I'm going to cover that
we're going to look at what they've been
doing as a result of this and when we
pinpoint it we are going to identify why
this is the case and what we need to be
doing and what we need to be avoiding
all of that right here beginning with
this article talking about how 80% of
American households are in a worse
financial position now than they were
before 2020 certainly we've seen a lot
of inflation we've seen a lot of
shrinkflation as well there's no doubt
about that and there's a very very small
group group of people who have been
benefiting from all of this that
probably sounds familiar to you well the
Federal Reserve along with Bloomberg
identified a rapid draw down of excess
savings particularly Stark among the
lower income groups while all income
groups have experienced a decrease in
realterm cash balances from the peak in
2021 the disparity is noteworthy and we
do see that yes that is the case but
everybody's doing this now today it
seems the vast majority look I'm in a
position where I'm talking to people
locally around me I'm talking to people
on Zoom I am also getting to hear from
people literally all over the world on a
regular basis I'm constantly trying to
pull information I asked the question
how is it in your industry what are you
seeing around you how has it been now
compared to a few years ago I'm always
asking these questions from everybody
you could imagine so I'm in a position
that's generally different than a lot of
others who deal with people locally and
generally that's about it I can hear
these things and get to these things
because number one I'm interested in it
but just because of the position that
I'm in and let me tell you it seems to
be completely widespread the same
situation it's that easy money from 2020
is gone interest rates are up and it's a
more difficult environment through and
through what's happening in the stock
market of course doesn't reflect that
it's a different scenario and when we
say economy people get confused they
think what are you talking about the
stock market no it's completely
different look what we're talking about
today is a different circumstance I'm
going to show you that okay just stick
with me I'll give the breakdown because
Americans right now are pulling cash
from their retirement savings not you
know for fun they're doing it to pay the
bills and you'll see that withdrawals
mostly spent on housing and medical
expenses and the average 401K balance
has barely buz Ed in 5 years certainly
there's a concern when people are doing
this it shows you that they don't have
any cash left over they wouldn't be
doing that on the retirement account if
they knew that you know they're going to
face the repercussions no no we don't
want that right obviously we would want
to use cash they're using their credit
cards they're up into their chin with
debt they're drowning in it and this is
coming in all forms and of course when
we are seeing interest rates at this
high they don't want to borrow that
they're going to take it from their nest
egg and that is okay some would say hey
that's fine but there's more to it than
that all right Americans are
increasingly tapping into the retirement
savings to cover housing and medical
bills amid higher cost of living
pressures 2.3% of workers took a
hardship withdrawal last quarter and
that's up from a year earlier the top
two reasons given were to avoid
foreclosure for homeowners or eviction
for rent
and for medical expenses so there we are
we have it information that is very
clear and distinct and yeah the
percentage is small but imagine what
that really signals about what's
happening here today and now people are
in a worse circumstance now because of
inflation we're being told consistently
that printing money does not create
inflation but at the same time I mean
we're told that the Tooth Fairy leaves
us money under our pillows and that's a
good Fant see when you're at the age
when it's age appropriate but there
Comes A Time in which we need to grow up
and there's only a small percentage of
the public that has grown out of
adolescence that has grown out of
childhood most people most people that
you work with are in that circumstance
where they feel that they are still a
child inside and that's good to have to
be a child and you know this and that
but come on you got to grow up when it
comes to paying the bills to being
knowledgeable and informed and if we're
not going to do that well then every
time they go and increase interest rates
and then smack them down again you're
going to get kicked to the curb do you
want to be a part of that or do you want
to be those who are able to Shield
themselves from the worst effects of
this inflation you know I've been
talking about this a long time but if
you just want to start at 2020 there
have been so many things that I've been
pointing out throughout this period of
time that I have not been flip-flopping
on like all these other guys you got to
stick with what makes sense I mean come
on look at this High interest rates are
shattering husing dreams around the
world now for a lot of people they had
expected interest rates to stay low
forever and that's a weird circumstance
if you ask me because these are part of
Cycles these are normal Cycles we go up
when there's higher inflation and then
they bring them down when they want to
create an artificial boom this happened
for so many years yet we expected that
to just stay low forever but of course
not the case during these periods of
time it gets tougher jobs are then you
know put on the edge because businesses
are saying H I don't think now's the
right time to hire more people and we
start laying off we start trimming the
fat a lot of businesses are laying off
5% 10% and so on so certainly home
ownership is one of those but I do
believe that the West is going towards a
more renter model there's no
question and these are just the leading
economic indicators okay all you need to
know is like think of like a bunch of
indicators squeezed in together and it
tells us that we are approaching
recession or likely they'll admit that
right now okay based on the data history
shows us we're in those circumstance now
what that means that the only relevant
Factor here that you need to know is
that usually during these times there
are layoffs that's all okay and you
could see it go back in history here to
the beginning of 2000 we can see these
previous
recessions typically like it's bottomed
out already it's started to head upwards
leading economic indicators that right
now is probably the recession they'll
start admitting that but we've already
grown out of that that's what they are
going to say and then they all cut
interest rates sometime in the new year
that that recession indication will
allow them to start cutting interest
rates and we can go into another
inflationary period I have been very
clear and distinct on what I have said
about inflation
and some others have said some other
things I've been I've been very spot on
and having flip-flopped about inflation
it's very clear okay where they're going
is more inflation there are some
deflationary aspects right now but let's
admit it like what are we seeing what do
we see across the board amid the
tumultuous developments of the past
several years including a short but
severe recession in a period of high and
sustained inflation a majority of
Americans say that they are not where
they need to be to achieve their
retirement savings goals compared to our
survey a year ago there's no progress on
this front those closer to retirement
age are among uh those feeling the sense
of urgency the most certainly right how
are they going to grow out of this how
are they going to get into a better
circumstance when everything is so
expensive and at the same time we add
things like this you know you you see
shrink inflation everywhere I've talked
about it by the way not just in products
not just in Goods but in Services as
well and they give you know a whole
bunch of different examples and I love
this website Mouse print where you see
it how they shrink it down it might be
the package gets thinner the package
gets you know one way shape or form
they're adding more air inside a lot
less product inside and it seems to to
be everywhere okay you can have these
weird mozzarella bites that would
probably make my grandmother roll in her
grave um you could look around here at
toilet paper why why you taking away our
toilet paper I mean come on come on okay
that's the one thing you don't touch
that that's the one thing we we don't
need less of all right um and it goes on
the point is we're getting squeezed from
inflation we're getting shrink flated
and and the crazy part is with the sh
inflation actually a lot of the time the
product will go up 10% or more in price
when you look at it dollar for dollar
10% that's going Way Beyond this
nonsense of three 3% inflation are you
kidding me right okay and what's
important to note is that CEOs are
seeing that the consumer is choiceful so
my message to you is watch number one
where the businesses if you are involved
in a business that's not considered to
be essential right around this time here
until we start cutting interest rates to
get right down to the bottom and so on
that's going to be a little bit more of
a difficult time we don't want to work
for those companies where they can just
lay us right off at the same time for
Stock Investing you want to be in a
place where um you know that the market
loves right and right now certainly
technology has been over favored if
anything uh but a lot of like the Warren
Buffett types would suggest that we
should be investing in the the Staples
right now um because people need them
regardless if they're getting shrink
flated or inflated oneway share perform
they they need certain things so keep
that in mind as an investor too if you
want to get um some information that I
think is incredibly relevant then what I
would do is check out money pickle okay
because I hooked up with these guys I
mean I think they're great I've gotten
great feedback and it's the ability to
get a cfp or fiduciary to help you out
and do it for free for free okay so you
click this link right here you schedule
a call in like 1 minute you're going to
be able to schedule a call get on with
them and they'll be able to help you out
to get your situation in order don't
just sit there and yeah I'll do it later
maybe years it's free why not everybody
that I've gotten the feedback from has
said good things so check that out click
the link and I hope that you will uh
give me feedback on that as well too
okay link will be in the description the
comment of the day no country needs a
central bank governments can issue their
own currency absolutely and we got to
understand the pain that we are
experiencing now is because of these
cycles that are created by the Central
Bank when they lift in interest rates it
causes a problem here when they bring
them all the way down to the ground and
leave them there for way too long it
causes a problem somewhere else but we
follow that cycle and we could be ahead
of the game how did I know these things
would happen I just follow the Central
Bank Cycles paying attention to all
these different indicators and I give
that very clearly and distinctly I tried
as best as I can here on the YouTube but
of course algorithms all that nonsense I
give that on my my uh weekly Finance
Friday group but that's a whole
different story if you want to check out
anything links are in the description I
want to appreciate you for being here
each and every single day and that means
check me out tomorrow make sure you type
in the money GPS to make sure you that
you get on that tomorrow I want to see
you there take care